1. EC2 Basics

Q1: What is EC2?
👉 Amazon EC2 is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

Q2: What are key pairs in EC2?
👉 Key pairs (.pem) are used for secure SSH or RDP access to instances.

Q3: What is the difference between On-Demand, Reserved, and Spot Instances?
👉

On-Demand → pay per hour, no commitment

Reserved → 1 or 3 years commitment, discounted

Spot → bid for unused capacity, can be interrupted

2. Connecting to EC2

Q4: How do you connect to a Linux EC2 instance?
👉 Use SSH with the .pem key or EC2 Instance Connect (browser).

Q5: Default username for Amazon Linux 2?
👉 ec2-user

Q6: Default username for Ubuntu EC2?
👉 ubuntu

Q7: How do you connect to a Windows EC2 instance?
👉 Use RDP client, Administrator username, and decrypted password from key pair.

Q8: How do you access a Windows instance from Linux?
👉 Use RDP client (Remmina, xfreerdp) with decrypted Administrator password.

Q9: Which port is required for SSH and RDP?
👉 SSH → 22, RDP → 3389

3. Nginx and Application Deployment

Q10: How do you install Nginx on EC2 Linux?
👉 SSH → sudo yum install nginx -y (Amazon Linux) → start & enable service

Q11: Where do you place HTML files for Nginx?
👉 /usr/share/nginx/html/

Q12: How do you make Nginx start on reboot?
👉 sudo systemctl enable nginx

4. User Data & Bootstrap Scripts

Q13: What is EC2 User Data?
👉 Scripts provided at launch to configure instances automatically.

Q14: When does User Data execute?
👉 Only during the first boot of the instance.

Q15: How can you verify if User Data ran successfully?
👉 Linux → /var/log/cloud-init-output.log
Windows → Event Viewer or script output

5. Security Groups

Q16: What is a Security Group?
👉 Virtual firewall controlling inbound/outbound traffic for EC2.

Q17: Is a Security Group stateful or stateless?
👉 Stateful – return traffic is automatically allowed.

Q18: Difference between Security Group and NACL?
👉 SG → instance-level, stateful, allow rules only
NACL → subnet-level, stateless, allow & deny rules

Q19: Best practices for Security Groups?
👉 Restrict SSH/RDP to specific IPs, separate SGs for layers, monitor with Flow Logs

6. EC2 Instance Types

Q20: What is an EC2 instance type?
👉 Defines hardware configuration: CPU, RAM, storage, network.

Q21: Name main categories of EC2 instances.
👉 General Purpose, Compute Optimized, Memory Optimized, Storage Optimized, GPU/Accelerated Computing

Q22: Which instance type is best for memory-intensive workloads?
👉 Memory Optimized (r5, x1)

7. EC2 Pricing

Q23: Difference between On-Demand, Reserved, Spot, Savings Plan, Dedicated Host?
👉

On-Demand → pay as you go

Reserved → 1-3 years, discounted

Spot → bid for unused capacity

Savings Plan → flexible commitment for discounts

Dedicated Host → physical server dedicated to your account

Q24: When would you use a Spot Instance?
👉 Fault-tolerant or batch workloads to save cost

8. Elastic IP

Q25: What is an Elastic IP?
👉 Static public IPv4 address for EC2 that doesn’t change on stop/start

Q26: Difference between public IP and Elastic IP?
👉 Public IP → changes after stop/start
Elastic IP → static, persistent

Q27: How do you attach/detach/release an Elastic IP?
👉 Attach → Allocate EIP → Associate with instance
Detach → Disassociate
Release → Return EIP to AWS

Q28: Will AWS charge for unused Elastic IP?
👉 Yes, if allocated but not associated with a running instance

9. Instance Metadata

Q29: What is EC2 instance metadata?
👉 Data about the instance (ID, IP, AMI, security groups) accessible internally

Q30: How to access metadata and user data from Linux?

curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/
curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data


Q31: Why is metadata important?
👉 Useful for automation, monitoring, and dynamic configuration
